# 2023-05-04

## On the call:
    - Shannon Byrnes <sbyrnes@internet2.edu>
    - Blake Dworaczyk (bdd4329@tamu.edu)
    - Frank Seesink <frank@unc.edu>
    - Shannon Spurling <shannon@more.net>
    - Joseph Cranmore <joseph.cranmore@tx-learn.net>
    - George Loftus <GKLoftus@Internet2.edu>
    - Kent Eitzmann <keitzmann@nebraska.edu>
    - Amy Liebowitz (amylieb@umich.edu)
    - Karl Newell (knewell@internet2.edu)
    - Stephen Fromm (stephenf@linkoregon.org)
    - Erick Sizelove (erick@cenic.org)
    - Annalicia Duran (annadura@internet2.edu)
    - Joshua Cook <joshuacook@tamu.edu>
    - Eric Brown <eric.brown@vt.edu>
    - Bill Bradford <bill@onenet.net>
    - Linda Roos (lroos@internet2.edu)
    - JoAnne Bender <jbender@internet2.edu>
    - Matt Adler <adler@ucar.edu>
    - David Sinn <dsinn@uw.edu>
    - Doug Wilkinson <doug@brown.edu>

!! This is 1 week before I2 Community Exchange

## Agenda

- Agenda Bash
- TechEx Git Workshop Update (Shannon Byrnes, i2)
- Untouched topics moved forward from previous meeting:
    - How does everyone handle network engineers who code versus an exprienced developer? It's easy to write a script but how do we roll full blown automation solutions that are easy to maintain. Similar to above^^^
    - What metrics are organizations using to justify the resources needed to implement automation?+++
    - Learn about what parts of their network are prioritized for automation, if any.+++++++
        - One answer: Access Layer. There is a lot of nuance, so this is challenging. However, this is also the part of the network that has a higher rate of change, as opposed to core.
    - Interested in the How to get started , establishing SSOT's, what are simple ways to get started. What are most common items people have in their SSOT+++
    - Any ideas how to make a reduction of the network that is still topologically significant? I.e. test on far fewer devices than the actual network. ++
    - How are people handling reconciling direct devices changes (or via NSO,etc) with their SoT?++
    - How are people managing Infrastructure data (devices, rack elevations, cables, sites, etc)?+
    - Does anyone have self-service functions exposed to users?+
    - What tools and techniques are people using for monitoring their networks?+
    - How do people implement automatic ticket opening/handling for unstable services and/or for during maintenances?++
    - How do people implement IP connector subnet integrations with NSO?  For example, how are ip connector subnets automatically allocated and deallocated from something like Infoblox for use with NSO services? Where is this being implemented with respect to NSO and what is triggering the allocation and deallocation behavior?+++
    - How do people implement configuration auditing with NSO?  Where and how is this being implemented and how are audit failures being handled?  How are users alerted to failures and how are they enabled to deal with them?+
    - Who is doing zero-touch provisioning, and how are you doing it?
        - I have done some of this in the past, happy to chat about my experiences at some point -JoAnne
    - Is anyoning handling device upgrades via NSO?
- Impromptu discussion on building names and challenging (names that change after a grant), how it impacts hostnames and e911.

Quick Poll  
Support for Automation from Leadership (+/-) 
++++++++++
-
