# 2023-08-03 - Thursday Afternoon

## On the call

- Shannon Byrnes <sbyrnes@internet2.edu>
- Mike Scarpellno <scarp@rutgers.edu>
- Derek Kocher <dk570@oit.rutgers.edu>
- Eric Brown <eric.brown@vt.edu>
- Michael Lambert <lambert@psc.edu>
- Jeff Bartig <jbartig@internet2.edu>
- Chris Wopat <wopat@wiscnet.net>
- Cody Halley <codyhalley@arizona.edu>
- Joseph Cranmore <joseph.cranmore@tx-learn.net>
- Frank Seesink <frank@unc.edu> [in late, odds are out early]
- Erick Sizelove <erick@cenic.org>
- Joshua Cook <joshuacook@tamu.edu>
- Nick Grundler <grundler@umich.edu>
- Amy Liebowitz <amylieb@umich.edu>
- Blake Dworaczyk <bdd4329@tamu.edu>
- Mark Tinberg <mark.tinberg@wisc.edu>

## Agenda

- Agenda Bash
- Show-and-Tell by Michael Scarpellino at Rutgers: Template Generation and SNMP String Exporter
- Discussion on interest for a Third Thursdays AM meeting
- Untouched topics moved forward from previous meeting
    - How does everyone handle network engineers who code versus an exprienced developer? It's easy to write a script but how do we roll full blown automation solutions that are easy to maintain.
        - An ad-hoc script gets jobs done and shows what needs doing, providing a detailed spec for an experienced developer rewrite the code into something reliable and maintainable -- mtinberg 
    - How are people managing Infrastructure data (devices, rack elevations, cables, sites, etc)?+++
    - How do people implement automatic ticket opening/handling for unstable services and/or for during maintenances?++
    - How do people implement configuration auditing with NSO?
        - Where and how is this being implemented and how are audit failures being handled?
        - How are users alerted to failures and how are they enabled to deal with them?+
    - Who is doing zero-touch provisioning, and how are you doing it?+
        - I have done some of this in the past, happy to chat about my experiences at some point -JoAnne
        - We've developed a very custom system that works well, happy to show it off at some point - BWard
    - Is anyoning handling device upgrades via NSO?
    - What sorts of frameworks are folks using for event-driven automations?  Webook+Rundeck? Message busses? Something else?++
    - What are the nuts and bolts of a netbox deployment? What are people using? OS install, Docker, Cloud? What plug-ins? How do you handle upgrades, backups, testing?++
        - Dartmouth uses Netbox Cloud. They handle all upgrades, backups, and testing - Felix
        - Using a fork of the lae.netbox Ansible playbook, no plugins yet, local test environment in Vagrant, QA  in VM and Prod on bare metal, all built/maintained with the playbook, backups just pg_dump and OS filesystem backup into TSM --mtinberg
    - Does anyone have any experience with Juniper Mist Access Assurance? +
        - Ask me in a month ;) - BWard
    - How are you modelling/storing firewall/ACL rulesets?+
        - RCSd text files in TFTP-able directory, tracking the version in a comment --mtinberg
- How are people representing mlags in Netbox/Nautobot