# 2023-06-01
 
## On the call

- Frank Seesink <frank@unc.edu>
- Shannon Byrnes <sbyrnes@internet2.edu>
- Joshua Cook <joshuacook@tamu.edu>
- Kent Eitzmann <keitzmann@nebraska.edu>
- Mike Scarpellino (scarp@rutgers.edu)
- Derek Kocher (dk570@rutgers.edu)
- Blake Dworaczyk <bdd4329@tamu.edu>
- David B. Hunter (davbhunt@iu.edu)
- Tony Bargardo tony.bargardo@unh.edu
- Andrew Donatello <adonatello@suncorridor.org>
- Doug Smith <doug.smith@lasp.colorado.edu>
- Maria Isabel Gandia <mariaisabel.gandia@csuc.cat> (GÉANT GN5-1 WP6 T4)
- Michael Lambert <lambert@psc.edu>
- Matt Adler <adler@ucar.edu>
- Eric Brown <eric.brown@vt.edu>
- Annalicia Duran (annadura@internet2.edu)
- Amy Liebowitz (amylieb@umich.edu)
- Shawn Caron (shawn.caron@unh.edu)
- Jeff Bartig <jbartig@internet2.edu>
- Chris Ott (chris.ott@tx-learn.net)

## Agenda

Agenda Bash
- TechEx Git Workshop Update (Shannon Byrnes, i2, who forgot to do it last month)
- Untouched topics moved forward from previous meeting
    - How does everyone handle network engineers who code versus an exprienced developer? It's easy to write a script but how do we roll full blown automation solutions that are easy to maintain. Similar to above^^^
    - Interested in the How to get started , establishing SSOT's, what are simple ways to get started. What are most common items people have in their SSOT+++++
    - Any ideas how to make a reduction of the network that is still topologically significant? I.e. test on far fewer devices than the actual network. +++
    - How are people handling reconciling direct devices changes (or via NSO,etc) with their SoT?++++
    - How are people managing Infrastructure data (devices, rack elevations, cables, sites, etc)?+++
    - Does anyone have self-service functions exposed to users?++
    - What tools and techniques are people using for monitoring their networks?+++++
    - How do people implement automatic ticket opening/handling for unstable services and/or for during maintenances?++
    - How do people implement configuration auditing with NSO?  Where and how is this being implemented and how are audit failures being handled?  How are users alerted to failures and how are they enabled to deal with them?+
    - Who is doing zero-touch provisioning, and how are you doing it?+
        - I have done some of this in the past, happy to chat about my experiences at some point -JoAnne
    - Is anyoning handling device upgrades via NSO?
    - What sorts of frameworks are folks using for event-driven automations?  Webook+Rundeck? Message busses? Something else?+

Software referenced today:
    DiffSync:  https://diffsync.readthedocs.io