# 2023-04-06

## On the call:
- Frank Seesink <frank@unc.edu>
- Shannon Byrnes <sbyrnes@internet2.edu>
- Richard Hicks - Link Oregon (rhicks@linkoregon.org)
- Kent Eitzmann - keitzmann@nebraska.edu
- Michael Lambert <lambert@psc.edu>
- Erick Sizelove (erick@cenic.org)
- Blake Dworaczyk (bdd4329@tamu.edu)
- Jeff Bartig <jbartig@internet2.edu>
- Joshua Cook <joshuacook@tamu.edu>
- Amy Liebowitz <amylieb@umich.edu>
- Nick Grundler <grundler@umich.edu>
- Linda Roos (lroos@internet2.edu)
- James Harr <jharr@internet2.edu>
- William Deigaard <soren@tamu.edu>
- Bryan Barnett <bbarnett@cenic.org>
- Shannon Spurling <shannon@more.net>
- Roy Hockett <rhockett@merit.edu>
- Doug Smith <doug.smith@lasp.colorado.edu>
- Tony Bargardo <tony.bargardo@unh.edu>
- Tim DeNike <denike@merit.edu>
- Karl Newell <knewell@internet2.edu>
- Peter Kurdziel <peter.kurdziel@mountsinai.org>


## Agenda:
- Agenda Bash
- Administrative
    - (sbyrnes@internet2.edu) Publishing "Automation Tools by Institution", mentioned previously in channel. Thoughts on location or otherwise? Confluence provides light authentication.
- Untouched topics moved forward from previous meeting
    - How does everyone handle network engineers who code versus an exprienced developer? It's easy to write a script but how do we roll full blown automation solutions that are easy to maintain. Similar to above^^^
    - What metrics are organizations using to justify the resources needed to implement automation?
    - Learn about what parts of their network are prioritized for automation, if any.++
    - Interested in the How to get started , establishing SSOT's, what are simple ways to get started. What are most common items people have in their SSOT+
    - What are people doing to help get existing network engineers excited about using automation instead of logging into each router / switch to manage? ++++
        - In the same topic, how do you then document automation solutions and train staff in a consistent way?
        - Paraphrased answers
        - Have to show them how it makes their lives easier. How does it help, and how does it not hurt. Need to illustrate/show to make them believe it.
        - Provide demos
        - Ask engineers: “What would you like to have automated?”. 
        - However, you can get in trouble with the “What would you like to have automated?” approach. They may ask for crazy things.
        - Or instead ask, "what are your biggest pain points?"
        - Still defensive, suspicion, or "take my job!" feelings exist, must be mindful. Ask: "Is there a shortage of work for us? This is freeing you up to do your job better"
        - Sometimes Network Engineers may have gone through CS classes or done programming before, and discovered they do not like it.
        - Tip: Get low-friction items, illustrate benefits of automating those items. It starts clicking after this.
        - Networks have become so complex, we need the engineers to work on the higher level problems, and automate the less complex.
        - Two big resistance factors to keep in mind: 1) Higher blast radius of mistakes. 2) There are things I have to do _right now_, can't learn automation because I don't have time.
        - Can start with automating low-risk, tedious tasks that save time. May be more exciting for engineers at first. Examples, SNMP configuration, DNS updates, description updates (ex. Update description with current LLDP neighbor).
            - Reduce risk further: Start with a script that simply reports on configuration or data, and does not make changes. Can help speed up troubleshooting too.
            - Reduce risk further: Add dry-run options to scripts, even one-off scripts.
    - Any ideas how to make a reduction of the network that is still topologically significant? I.e. test on far fewer devices than the actual network. +
    - How are people handling reconciling direct devices changes (or via NSO,etc) with their SoT?
    - How are people managing Infrastructure data (devices, rack elevations, cables, sites, etc)?+
    - Does anyone have self-service functions exposed to users?
    - What tools and techniques are people using for monitoring their networks?
- How are people deciding how much functionality to include in an NSO service+
    - Answer from James Harr (i2) -- paraphrased
        - Start with templated and/or simpler-to-implement services. I2 started with basic services like modelling interfaces. Find both simple and complex examples of services to review/note. Having network engineers in the conversation and planning, who are embedded/involved with the development of NSO for the organization, was helpful. Used Google docs, good for starting conversations and commenting, even included yang model+templates in the doc. Training for NSO occurs for both teams. These development conversations happened daily to weekly. Encourage feedback. Developing NSO services gets easier as you go. Get it wrong until you get it right. (Semi-related blog to come from i2 soon). 
        - RFS and CFS concepts taught in NSO training may be useful framework.
        - Emphasized iterative steps.
        - Yang-Patch - multiple modifications in a single HTTP request and NSO transaction, can mix/match add/deletes too
            - https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8072.html
            - Example: https://support.yumaworks.com/support/solutions/articles/1000255894-how-do-i-use-yang-patch-
            - Make use of Postman / Hoppscotch / HTTPie to try out examples.
    - Answer from Amy Liebowitz (umich) -- paraphrased
        - Ask your engineers what they want automated first. Iterate. Open a conversation whenever automation for one-off use-cases come up; should we do this? Will it go away? Sometimes you may leave certain things purposely unmanaged on NSO as a result. Ex. Improve access layer configuration first before trying to automate strange configuration, when possible.
    - How do people implement automatic ticket opening/handling for unstable services and/or for during maintenances?+
    - How do people implement IP connector subnet integrations with NSO?  For example, how are ip connector subnets automatically allocated and deallocated from something like Infoblox for use with NSO services? Where is this being implemented with respect to NSO and what is triggering the allocation and deallocation behavior?
    - How do people implement configuration auditing with NSO?  Where and how is this being implemented and how are audit failures being handled?  How are users alerted to failures and how are they enabled to deal with them?
    - Git workshop? Who's doing it and when?
        - Shannon B (i2) to coordinate/lead and submit proposal, hunting for collaborators. To take place during TechEx, exact dates and dates for when to collaborate would be determined after a group is built.
        - Ryan's outline...
            - "I think we've just developed an outline...
            - Simple version control.
            - Github/Gitlab Basics.
            - CI/CD Basics and uses.
            - Python Packaging."